hand molding decorations is one of the
simplest ways to create a very
individual effect that can go on to
further decorate your cakes and using a
small number of tools you can create
something quite elaborate I'm going to
start by needing some of the sugar paste
that I have here in a teddy bear brown
color to create little become the body
of the teddy bear creating decorations
like this using simple tools and sugar
paste is a great way of getting children
involved in all of your cake decorating
ideas or for creating things that can be
made well in advance so it takes the
jeopardy out of some of the decoration
on the cake so I've needed it and I'm
going to cut a small piece so that i can
create what's going to become the body
of my bear and I want to create a shape
that's nice and rounded which when I
turnover creates a nice rump at the back
of the bear like is real nice firm
bottom at the back rounded off and
smooth and then taper it down at the
front where his head's going to sit so
it's sort of like a pear shape of a nice
rump at the back now to create the
forelegs the two front and the two
behind ones again need some of the paste
and what we want to do is take her it
down one side so that we create two back
legs
as I'm creating this there I'm going to
put him together on my acrylic work
bored here so that once he's made he can
firm up overnight before going on to my
cake so he's got his back paws on here
and then using the ball tool collection
of Baldwin's we're going to create the
pad in his back feet the smaller one up
over the surface the front paws i'm
going to make slightly smaller
make his head
for the head we like to have a nice
snout that comes forward what see two
little ears
which I'm going to fix in position using
rounded pointed tool tool
things in my pad
and then taking the stitching tool
little shell tape shell stitching tool
just going to mark down his back along
his legs
front paws
remember the indentation here for those
eyes are going to sit I'm going to use
the little smiley tool that we have here
where they want a large smile or a small
smile and give them a large smile bottom
there I'm going to his nose on and then
pipe the details for his eyes and
haven't had to use any extra glues to
fix all of this together just the
natural tackiness of the sugar paste
itself is enough to hold it all together
news
so to pipe the eyes i'm going to use one
of the disposable piping bags I'm going
to cut the end off and then insert a
nozzle I'm using a number one nozzle so
it's quite a small hole turn the top of
the icing bag down and then filling that
with some freshly made white royal icing
whether you make this yourself or
whether you buy royal icing ready made
from a supermarket and transfer it into
one of these piping bags they'll find
that you can create really fine detail
with when you're with how you detail
your pipe so I'm holding it in your hand
I'm going to pipe his eyes 12 and finish
off by typing a little pupil with the
black royal icing just on the surface
you
and as you're simply made cute little
teddy bear
you